# eurex_pipeline

The 'eurex_pipeline' project was generated by using the default-minimal template.

* `src/`: SQL source code for this project.
* `resources/`:  Resource configurations (jobs, pipelines, etc.)

## Getting started

Choose how you want to work on this project:

(a) Directly in your Databricks workspace, see
    https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/bundles/workspace.

(b) Locally with an IDE like Cursor or VS Code, see
    https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/vscode-ext.html.

(c) With command line tools, see https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/cli/databricks-cli.html


The steps below assumes you have the Databricks CLI installed (c). If you don't, you can follow option a or b above to deploy the assets to your workspace.

To run this project you need to do 3 things:
- Clone this repo to your local machine 
- Update the `databricks.yml` file with your configurations
- Upload the sample dataset to a volume, then deploy the assets to Databricks


# 1) Update the default values in the databricks.yml file

In the **`databricks.yml`** file, update the variables with the right one in your workspace

```yaml
    warehouse_id:
        lookup:
            warehouse: 'Serverless Starter Warehouse' # Add the name of the SQL warehouse you have access to in your Databricks workspace

    #####
    workspace:
      host: https://WORKSPACE-ID.gcp.databricks.com/
     variables:
      catalog: main # update your caralog name
      schema: default # update your schema name
      volume: volume # update your volume name

```

Also update the `YOUR_USERNAME` part of the table name in In the **`eurex_dbt/models/schema.yml`** file so dbt can read the output of the Spark Declarative Pipeline. 

If your email is `abc.123@example.com`, then your username is going to be `abc_123`.

```yaml
    sources:
        ...
        tables:
        - name: YOUR_USERNAME_gold_eurex_product_performance # Actual table name from UC
```

In the **`eurex_dbt/models/gold_eurex_top_movers.sql`** file update the `YOUR_USERNAME` part of the table name.

```sql
     FROM {{ source('sdp_pipeline','YOUR_USERNAME_gold_eurex_product_performance') }}
```

# 2) Upload the sample dataset to your volume

Download the `csv` file from this path **/`labs/artifacts/data/eurex_daily_stats.csv`** and upload it to the volume you defined above. 

Ensure that is the **only** file in the volume.

# 3) Using this project using the CLI

The Databricks workspace and IDE extensions provide a graphical interface for working
with this project. It's also possible to interact with it directly using the CLI:

1. Authenticate to your Databricks workspace, if you have not done so already:
    ```
    $ databricks configure
    ```

2. To deploy a development copy of this project, type:
    ```
    $ databricks bundle validate --target dev

    $ databricks bundle deploy --target dev
    ```
    (Note that "dev" is the default target, so the `--target` parameter
    is optional here.)

    This deploys everything that's defined for this project.

3. To run a job or pipeline, use the "run" command:
   ```
   $ databricks bundle run
   ```
